>>> TODAY ONE OF THE MORE
>>> TODAY ONE OF THE MORE PROMINENT PAID PATHOLOGICAL
PROMINENT PAID PATHOLOGICAL LIARS ON THE WHITE HOUSE PAYROLL
LIARS ON THE WHITE HOUSE PAYROLL BLAMED WHAT SHE CALLED THE
BLAMED WHAT SHE CALLED THE ANTI-RELIJIOSITY OF LATE NIGHT
ANTI-RELIJIOSITY OF LATE NIGHT COMEDIANS FOR THE MASS MURDERER
COMEDIANS FOR THE MASS MURDERER AT THE TREE OF LIFE SYNAGOGUE.
AT THE TREE OF LIFE SYNAGOGUE. SHE APPARENTLY DOES NOT KNOW
SHE APPARENTLY DOES NOT KNOW THAT STEPHEN COLBERT IS A
THAT STEPHEN COLBERT IS A FAITHFUL CATHOLIC AND SHE
FAITHFUL CATHOLIC AND SHE APPARENTLY DOES NOT KNOW ABOUT
APPARENTLY DOES NOT KNOW ABOUT THE ANTI-RELIJIOSITY EXPRESSED
THE ANTI-RELIJIOSITY EXPRESSED BY THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
BY THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION TODAY.
TODAY. NOW, WHEN YOU WATCH THIS VIDEO
NOW, WHEN YOU WATCH THIS VIDEO THAT WAS TODAY YOU WILL SEE HOW
THAT WAS TODAY YOU WILL SEE HOW YOU CAN GET GRABBED BY THE
YOU CAN GET GRABBED BY THE POLICE IF YOU QUOTE JESUS CHRIST
POLICE IF YOU QUOTE JESUS CHRIST TO ATTORNEY GENERAL JEFF
TO ATTORNEY GENERAL JEFF SESSIONS.
SESSIONS. >> I WAS NAKED AND YOU DID NOT
>> I WAS NAKED AND YOU DID NOT CLOTHE ME.
CLOTHE ME. I WAS A STRANGER AND YOU DID NOT
I WAS A STRANGER AND YOU DID NOT WELCOME ME.
WELCOME ME. >> THANK YOU FOR YOUR COMMENTS
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR COMMENTS AND --
AND -- >> I WAS SICK AND IMPRISONED AND
>> I WAS SICK AND IMPRISONED AND YOU DID NOT VISIT ME.
YOU DID NOT VISIT ME. BROTHER JEFF, AS A FELLOW UNITED
BROTHER JEFF, AS A FELLOW UNITED MEGD
MEGD METHODIST, I CALL UPON YOU TO
METHODIST, I CALL UPON YOU TO REPENT.
REPENT. >> HE DID NOT REPENT.
>> HE DID NOT REPENT. THAT WAS PASTOR WILL GREEN WHO
THAT WAS PASTOR WILL GREEN WHO WAS ONE OF TWO PASTORS REMOVED
WAS ONE OF TWO PASTORS REMOVED FROM THAT ROOM BY POLICE WHEN
FROM THAT ROOM BY POLICE WHEN THEY TRIED TO BRING RELIGION
THEY TRIED TO BRING RELIGION INTO THAT ROOM TO JEFF SESSIONS.
INTO THAT ROOM TO JEFF SESSIONS. JOINING US NOW IS JOHN MEACHAM,
JOINING US NOW IS JOHN MEACHAM, PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN AND AN
PRESIDENTIAL HISTORIAN AND AN MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR.
MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR. AND JOHN, I WOULD JUST LIKE TO
AND JOHN, I WOULD JUST LIKE TO GET YOUR REACTION OF WHAT WE’VE
GET YOUR REACTION OF WHAT WE’VE BEEN THROUGH SINCE SATURDAY
BEEN THROUGH SINCE SATURDAY THROUGH TONIGHT.
THROUGH TONIGHT. >> WELL, WE’RE IN ONE OF THE
>> WELL, WE’RE IN ONE OF THE DARKER PERIODS OF A DARK ERA,
DARKER PERIODS OF A DARK ERA, UNQUESTIONABLY.
UNQUESTIONABLY. MY OWN VIEW IS THAT TO SOME
MY OWN VIEW IS THAT TO SOME EXTENT WE NEED TO PUT THE
EXTENT WE NEED TO PUT THE PRESIDENCY IN A KIND OF CULTURAL
PRESIDENCY IN A KIND OF CULTURAL TIME-OUT, IF WE POSSIBLY CAN, TO
TIME-OUT, IF WE POSSIBLY CAN, TO THE EXTENT TO WHICH WE CAN.
THE EXTENT TO WHICH WE CAN. THE PRESIDENT HAS NO INTEREST OF
THE PRESIDENT HAS NO INTEREST OF MORAL LEADERSHIP.
MORAL LEADERSHIP. WE ARE IN AN ERA WHERE THE
WE ARE IN AN ERA WHERE THE CLIMATE IS SO TOXIC AND SO
CLIMATE IS SO TOXIC AND SO SULFUROUS THAT I WORRY AS DO
SULFUROUS THAT I WORRY AS DO YOU, AS DO SO MANY PEOPLE THAT
YOU, AS DO SO MANY PEOPLE THAT WE ARE AT THE BEGINNING OF
WE ARE AT THE BEGINNING OF SOMETHING AND NOT THE END OF
SOMETHING AND NOT THE END OF SOMETHING.
SOMETHING. AND SO I THINK -- AND I THINK
AND SO I THINK -- AND I THINK EXPLANATIONS LIKE THAT SOMEHOW
EXPLANATIONS LIKE THAT SOMEHOW OR ANOTHER THIS IS ABOUT
OR ANOTHER THIS IS ABOUT ANTI-RELIJIOSITY IT IS ABOUT
ANTI-RELIJIOSITY IT IS ABOUT ANTI-AMERICAN, IT’S ABOUT
ANTI-AMERICAN, IT’S ABOUT ANTI-SEMITISM, IT’S ABOUT HATE.
ANTI-SEMITISM, IT’S ABOUT HATE. BUT TO SUGGEST THAT SOMEHOW OR
BUT TO SUGGEST THAT SOMEHOW OR ANOTHER THERE’S HUSTILITYOSTILIT
ANOTHER THERE’S HUSTILITYOSTILIT RELIGION IN THE PUBLIC SQUARE
RELIGION IN THE PUBLIC SQUARE AND THAT’S LEADING TO THESE ACTS
AND THAT’S LEADING TO THESE ACTS OF VIOLENCE SEEMS TO BE A
OF VIOLENCE SEEMS TO BE A BENEATH COMMENT REALLY.
BENEATH COMMENT REALLY. >> I WANT TO LISTEN TO WHAT SOME
>> I WANT TO LISTEN TO WHAT SOME OF DONALD TRUMP HAD TO SAY ON
OF DONALD TRUMP HAD TO SAY ON SATURDAY AFTER -- AFTER THE
SATURDAY AFTER -- AFTER THE MASSACRE AT THE SYNAGOGUE AND
MASSACRE AT THE SYNAGOGUE AND SHOW HOW IT DIDN’T CHANGE
SHOW HOW IT DIDN’T CHANGE ANYTHING ABOUT HIS CAMPAIGN
ANYTHING ABOUT HIS CAMPAIGN STYLE AND HIS INDIVIDUAL
STYLE AND HIS INDIVIDUAL TARGETING OF PEOPLE, THE KIND OF
TARGETING OF PEOPLE, THE KIND OF INDIVIDUAL TARGETING THAT HAS
INDIVIDUAL TARGETING THAT HAS LED TO THE DELIVERY OF BOMBS.
LED TO THE DELIVERY OF BOMBS. LET’S LISTEN TO THIS.
LET’S LISTEN TO THIS. >> I’M GOING TO TONE IT DOWN
>> I’M GOING TO TONE IT DOWN JUST A LITTLE BIT.
JUST A LITTLE BIT. IS THAT OKAY?
IS THAT OKAY? I HAD A FEELING YOU MIGHT SAY
I HAD A FEELING YOU MIGHT SAY THAT.
THAT. NOW, I DID A TINY BIT OF
NOW, I DID A TINY BIT OF RESEARCH AND MIKE’S OPPONENT
RESEARCH AND MIKE’S OPPONENT BRANDON KELLY IS VOTE FOR NANCY
BRANDON KELLY IS VOTE FOR NANCY PELOSI AND OF COURSE MAXINE
PELOSI AND OF COURSE MAXINE WATERS.
WATERS. THEY WOULD SAY HE IS THE
THEY WOULD SAY HE IS THE GREATEST CONSERVATIVE OF
GREATEST CONSERVATIVE OF ALL-TIME, BUT BECAUSE HIS NAME
ALL-TIME, BUT BECAUSE HIS NAME IS DONALD TRUMP YOU HAVE HAVE
IS DONALD TRUMP YOU HAVE HAVE HATERS AND THEY CONTINUE TO
HATERS AND THEY CONTINUE TO HATE.
HATE. THESE ARE FOOLISH AND VERY
THESE ARE FOOLISH AND VERY STUPID PEOPLE.
STUPID PEOPLE. VERY STUPID PEOPLE.
VERY STUPID PEOPLE. >> JOHN MEACHAM, IT WAS
>> JOHN MEACHAM, IT WAS IMPOSSIBLE TO DETECT A WHIFF OF
IMPOSSIBLE TO DETECT A WHIFF OF GRIEF IN DONALD TRUMP AFTER
GRIEF IN DONALD TRUMP AFTER THAT.
THAT. >> WE’RE IN A THIS IN HONOR OF
>> WE’RE IN A THIS IN HONOR OF BILL SAPPHIRE, HERE’S AN
BILL SAPPHIRE, HERE’S AN ILLITERATIVE RUN FOR YOU.
ILLITERATIVE RUN FOR YOU. WE’RE IN AN ODD POSITION WHERE
WE’RE IN AN ODD POSITION WHERE WE’RE FACED WITH A PRESIDENT WHO
WE’RE FACED WITH A PRESIDENT WHO IS BOUND UP IN NARCISSISM,
IS BOUND UP IN NARCISSISM, NATIONALISM AND NATIONALIST.
NATIONALISM AND NATIONALIST. TAKE THAT SPIRO, HE WOULD HAVE
TAKE THAT SPIRO, HE WOULD HAVE LOVED THAT.
LOVED THAT. AND I THINK IT’S A REMARKABLE
AND I THINK IT’S A REMARKABLE ALMOST SOCIOPATHIC LACK OF
ALMOST SOCIOPATHIC LACK OF EMPATHY.
EMPATHY. WE DON’T NEED MORE EVIDENCE, BUT
WE DON’T NEED MORE EVIDENCE, BUT IT IS A MANIFESTATION OF THE
IT IS A MANIFESTATION OF THE FACT THE PRESIDENT SEES THIS AS
FACT THE PRESIDENT SEES THIS AS A REALITY SHOW AND NOT AS
A REALITY SHOW AND NOT AS REALITY ITSELF.
REALITY ITSELF. >> AND DO YOU FIND AS WE WERE
>> AND DO YOU FIND AS WE WERE DISCUSSING EARLIER IN THIS HOUR
DISCUSSING EARLIER IN THIS HOUR THAT WHEN THE PRESIDENT
THAT WHEN THE PRESIDENT CONTINUES WITH THAT APPEARANCE
CONTINUES WITH THAT APPEARANCE AND CONTINUES IN HIS NORMAL MOOD
AND CONTINUES IN HIS NORMAL MOOD WITH HIS FOLLOWERS, THAT HE IS
WITH HIS FOLLOWERS, THAT HE IS IN SOME WAY CONVEYING TO THEM
IN SOME WAY CONVEYING TO THEM THAT NOTHING IMPORTANT TO THEM
THAT NOTHING IMPORTANT TO THEM HAPPENED IN PITTSBURGH THAT DAY?
HAPPENED IN PITTSBURGH THAT DAY? >> THAT’S A VERY INTERESTING
>> THAT’S A VERY INTERESTING POINT.
POINT. YES, I FEAR SO.
YES, I FEAR SO. IF THE PRESIDENT DOES NOT PAUSE
IF THE PRESIDENT DOES NOT PAUSE TO TAKE NOTE OF MOMENTS OF
TO TAKE NOTE OF MOMENTS OF CRISIS AND MOMENTS OF GRIEF IN
CRISIS AND MOMENTS OF GRIEF IN THE LIFE OF THE NATION, THEN HE
THE LIFE OF THE NATION, THEN HE DOES HAVE AN EXTRAORDINARY
DOES HAVE AN EXTRAORDINARY NUMBER OF FOLLOWERS WHO WILL
NUMBER OF FOLLOWERS WHO WILL TAKE THEIR CUE FROM HIM.
TAKE THEIR CUE FROM HIM. AND THAT IN FACT WHAT UNFOLDED
AND THAT IN FACT WHAT UNFOLDED IS SOMETHING TO BE COMMENTED ON
IS SOMETHING TO BE COMMENTED ON QUICKLY AND IN A PRO-FORMA WAY.
QUICKLY AND IN A PRO-FORMA WAY. AND THEN YOU GET BACK TO
AND THEN YOU GET BACK TO ATTACKING THE FOLKS WHO -- WHO
ATTACKING THE FOLKS WHO -- WHO WERE AGAINST WHOM AN
WERE AGAINST WHOM AN ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT WAS
ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT WAS LAUNCHED LAST WEEK.
LAUNCHED LAST WEEK. AND I TRY NOT TO BE REFLEXIVELY
AND I TRY NOT TO BE REFLEXIVELY ANTI- EITHER SIDE YOU.
ANTI- EITHER SIDE YOU. YOU DO TRY TO LET REASON AND LET
YOU DO TRY TO LET REASON AND LET A HISTORICAL SENSIBILITY
A HISTORICAL SENSIBILITY ACTUALLY DECIDE TO WHAT EXTENT
ACTUALLY DECIDE TO WHAT EXTENT IS THIS A STYLISTIC PROBLEM, TO
IS THIS A STYLISTIC PROBLEM, TO WHAT EXTENT IS IT A SUBSTANTIVE
WHAT EXTENT IS IT A SUBSTANTIVE PROBLEM.
PROBLEM. BUT WE’RE EXACTLY AT A POINT AND
BUT WE’RE EXACTLY AT A POINT AND HAVE BEEN FOR A WHILE WHERE THE
HAVE BEEN FOR A WHILE WHERE THE STYLE AND THE SUBSTANCE ARE ONE.
STYLE AND THE SUBSTANCE ARE ONE. THE AMERICAN PRESIDENCY FROM THE
THE AMERICAN PRESIDENCY FROM THE VERY FIRST MOMENTS WHEN GEORGE
VERY FIRST MOMENTS WHEN GEORGE WASHINGTON SAID AS THE FIRST OF
WASHINGTON SAID AS THE FIRST OF EVERYTHING I KNOW THAT
EVERYTHING I KNOW THAT EVERYTHING I DO WILL BECOME A
EVERYTHING I DO WILL BECOME A PRECEDENT AND I WANT THOSE
PRECEDENT AND I WANT THOSE PRECEDENTS TO BE FOUNDED ON TRUE
PRECEDENTS TO BE FOUNDED ON TRUE PRINCIPLES.
PRINCIPLES. JOHN ADAMS WHEN HE WAS VICE
JOHN ADAMS WHEN HE WAS VICE PRESIDENT NOTED THE PRESIDENT
PRESIDENT NOTED THE PRESIDENT WAS THE OBJECT OF ALL EYES AND
WAS THE OBJECT OF ALL EYES AND THE SUBJECT OF ALL CONVERSATION.
THE SUBJECT OF ALL CONVERSATION. THIS HAS BEEN TRUE FOR A LONG
THIS HAS BEEN TRUE FOR A LONG TIME.
TIME. AND THE WAY IN WHICH YOU COMPORT
AND THE WAY IN WHICH YOU COMPORT YOURSELF IN THESE MOMENTS
YOURSELF IN THESE MOMENTS MATTERS ENORMOUSLY.
MATTERS ENORMOUSLY. AND SO ONE OF THE THINGS WE KNOW
AND SO ONE OF THE THINGS WE KNOW IS THAT THE PRESIDENCY HAS NOT
IS THAT THE PRESIDENCY HAS NOT CHANGED DONALD TRUMP.
CHANGED DONALD TRUMP. WHAT WE DON’T YET KNOW IS HAS
WHAT WE DON’T YET KNOW IS HAS DONALD TRUMP CHANGED THE
DONALD TRUMP CHANGED THE PRESIDENCY PERMANENTLY?
PRESIDENCY PERMANENTLY? WHAT IS UNQUESTIONABLE IS THAT
WHAT IS UNQUESTIONABLE IS THAT HE HAS COARSENED THE CULTURE OF
HE HAS COARSENED THE CULTURE OF THE MOMENT.
THE MOMENT. >> JOHN MEACHAM, IN MY STRUGGLE
>> JOHN MEACHAM, IN MY STRUGGLE FOR PERSPECTIVE YESTERDAY AND